## Yugioh Probability Analyser
This project uses [JavaFX](https://openjfx.io/) and the [Yu-Gi-Oh! API](https://ygoprodeck.com/api-guide/) to create a GUI that can show [.ydk files](https://fileinfo.com/extension/ydk) as full yugioh decks, as well as conduct probability analysis.
#### Goals
For a long time, most yugioh analysis has consisted of ratios either determined by vibe, or by a single measurement on a hypergeometric calculator (e.g. 9 handtraps in a 40 card deck has a 74% chance of seeing at least 1). However, this math is still quite rudimentary, and does not take into account multiple distinct "lists" of cards (e.g. handtraps or engine) appearing in the same hand. As well as potential "garnets", that we do not want to draw. This project tries to incorporate that, by creating a distinct list of desired and undesired cards, with specific sublists that partition the desired/undesired cards into different categories. The aim of this is to encourage deeper analysis into card ratios, and make people think more about their deck building choices (especially the 40 card standard deck size, considering that we have seen more and more decks with 45+ cards gaining premier event tops recently).
#### Avenues for Improvement
There are other goals to consider when deck building beyond consistency, like resilience to opponent interaction, and actual power level etc. However, these are much harder things to quantify. Marcus Patel and his teammates at The Disciples created a [great video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fNiyaKrNPF8&t=66s) covering their analysis on the Dragon Link FTK deck that resurfaced a while back. This does not need to measure power level of endboard (as the deck is a FTK, and wins on the first turn by defintion) but their program considers hands that can play through interaction. However, their program is specific to the decklist they have created, and requires a lot of the logic to be hard coded in. An ideal simulator would just take in a ydk and some minimal user input. Perhaps an avenue to avoid all the lengthy user input could be teaching a ML algorithm to play yugioh, but as it is so complex this could be difficult.
